Day 5.

HTML Css, Javascropt Intro(what I have understand while reading):

Html, Css, and Javascript are the basic languages that worked together to create eveything we see when we look at somethings
on the internet.

HTML stand for hyper text markup language, a very simple but yet powerful markup language.

Html put information, content and layout on a webpage, Css is used to give the style, looks and feel, javascript is
used to make the website interactive.

It determines how document and web pages are display(control the layout of the content and provide struture for the web design). Which makes it the building block of any website.

With a basic understanding of HTML, you can significantly increase the control and flexibility that you have with your website.
with that been said, you can now used other programming languages to further enhance your website design(PHP, Javascript
,Ruby, Python, SQL,etc.)

Html in detailes(what I have understand while reading):

Tags:

I learned opening tags tell the browser where html elements starts and closing tags does the opposite(where it ends.)
Tags comprised of keyword enclosed in angle brackets-<></>.
It also tells the browser what content the element contains.
Using the correct tags help search engines and make them accessible to user who rely on screen readers, to use the internet.

Common problems with html Boilerplate :

<!---- !DOCTYPE html issue ---->
Not declaring the "!DOCTYPE html" at the top of your document will cause the browser to switch to quirks mode,
when rendering a document. It will also cause some specifications to be incompatible.

<---- Index.html issue ---->
Not having a index.html as your hompage in your document, will also caused problem.
That is because, by default web servers look for an index.html page when user land on our websites.
it is advisable to always name our hompage index.html.

<---- html lang issue---->
Not having a lang attribute will caused accessibility problem.
It help specify the language of text content used in the document and allows assistive technologies, 
like screen readers,to adapt according to the language and invoke correct pronunciation.

Html heading:

h1 should always be used for the heading of the overall page, and the lower level(h2-h6) should be used as heading for content
in smaller sections.

html Lists:

Unordered list is used to create a list of items where order doesn't matter.
Ordered list is used to create a lidt og items where order have to be taking into consideration.

html links:

Browsers assume relative links contain the domain name of our site, since it is another page on the same site.



