DAY 9.

Css(what I have understand while reading)

Css simply means Cascading style sheet.

it is used to add styles to the structure of an html document.

Css is usually made up of rules and these rules are made up of a selector
and a semi-colon that separate a list of declarations. 
Each declaration consist of a property and a value pair.

Selector refers to the html element to which the css rules apply.
there are several selectors that can be used to select elements.
which include but not limited to:

-Universal Selector: it is used to select elements of any type and applied to it.
It is declared using the asterisk.

-Type selector: it is used to select all elements of a given element.
It is declared using the name of the element.

-Class selector: it is used to select all elements with the given class. 
It is declared with the ".classname".
the same class can be used on as many element as possible.
It can be used along with the class attribute in an html document.
it is case sensitive.

-ID selector: similar to id selector, they select element with the given id,
and can be used along with the id attribute in an html document.
It is declared using the #"idname".
An Id selector should not be used when not necessary(use it sparingly).
It should rather be used to take advantage of specificity.

*Differences between IDs and Classes - an element should only have one ID
while classes can have multiple classes.
IDs shouldn't be repeated on a single page while classes can be repeated many times
base on your need.
IDs attribute shouldn't contain any whitespace.

-Grouping selector: it is used to group two or more elements that share common style
 declarations
It helps to reduce the repetition of declarations and make editing of classes and IDs
easier.

-Chaining selector: is used to chain selectors as a list without any separation.

-Css combinator: is used to combine multiple selectors differently than either grouping
or changing them.
it also show relationshp selectors.

Css cascade: is used to determine which rules actually get applied to our html.
There are various factors that cascade used to determine which style get applied 
to an element with similar property but different values.

#1 Specificity: a rule of specificity states that, the more specific declaration will take
precedence over less specific ones.
Specificity will only be applied when an element has multiple, conflicting declarations
targeting it.

#2 Inheritance: refers to Css properties(usually typography based properties) that,
when applied to an element, are inherited by that element's decendants.

#3 Rule Order: like the name defined, whichever rule was the last defined is the
winner, it is usually the last factor that cascade used to determinee which rule 
should apply.

Box-Model: it consist of content box, padding bpx, margin box, and border box.
it is core to understand the box model inroder to layout/position
elements on the webpage.

-Content box it is the area where your content is displayed.

-Padding add spaces between the border of a box and the content of the box.
-Margin increases the space between the border of a box and the borders of adjacent 
boxes.
-Border add space between the margin and the padding.

Block and inline elements: 
 -Block level elements take the full width of it parent container and doesn't allow
 other element to stick beside it, it usually stacked atop each other.
 
 Inline elements take the required width of it content, it also allow other elements
 to stick beside it.
 
Flexbox: it allows you to arrange items into rows or columns.
it is simply a toolbox of properties that you use to put things where it is needed.
